
1. Ease to develop
        R: Easier to develop, significantly less coding required than d3 as we can use many existing libraries.
		
		Tableau: Easiest to develop of all 3, minimum coding required.
        
		D3: extensive coding for even a simple graph. we write code for drawing axis, creating circles, rectangles and everything 
			we see in the chart is explicitly coded in d3/svg/html.
			
2. Ease to maintain the visualization
        R: I find this easy to maintain too but again this does not have flexifility as D3 either.

        Tableau: Easy to maintain but limited user control.
        
		D3: Once a well strucured D3 program is ready and functional, i did not find it difficult to maintain it or tweak it as needed.
			In fact, i find it super flexible as you control more parameters for vizualisation than the other two.
		

3. Usability of visualization developed for end users
        R: I would guess, as the language itself is being used more by data engineers, data scientists for data exploration and patterns, Predictions etc, 
			It must have smaller user base than the other two. Best of all three for the data exploration and analysis purpose as it creates different
			exploratory graphs like correlation, scattor plot and other in seconds.

        Tableau: Dashboard charts for specific projects, monitoring systems or In pesentations to Project Teams, Management people or other decision makers. 
		
        D3: This would probably fit wherever a chart can fit because of its flexibility. But more appropriate for charts which needs a high level of customization.
			User base must be significantly large as we see all these interactive charts in all different websites, including news, stocks etc.
			Simple charts are better off to other tools, specifically to tableau.
		
4. Scalability of visualization to “large” dat
        R: As per RBloggers, 1M rows are easy but needs extra efforts as the data grow from here.

        Tableau: Tableau seems to have the best scalability as i read it could handle upto 3.5 GB ( upto 600M+ rows) (Stack Overflow)
        D3: Does not seem to be very popular for large datasets probably because it has to handle large number of DOM elements (stackoverflow).
		
4. System requirements to run the visualization
        R: Its a free software, No software license is needed. Needs less memory and space than tableau.

        Tableau: Tableau licence needed. Needs most memory & Space of them all (2 & 1.5 gb as per google). Compatible browsers recommended.
		
        D3: No Licensce needed. Good comaptibility to all different browsers. System must have java installed and good configuration if data is large.


 

